no one will ever pay you what you're
worth no one will ever pay you what
you're worth
they'll only ever pay you what they
think your words and you control their
thinking not like this although that
would be cool that would be really cool
instead like this clearly defining and
communicating your values are essential
to being paid well for your excellence
anyone here want to be payable okay good
then this talk is for everyone
okay Universal applicability it's true
if you're a business owner if you're an
employee if you're a job seeker it's
true if you're a man or a woman now I
approach this today through the lens of
the women business owner because then my
work I've observed that women
underpriced more so than men the gender
wage gap is a well-travelled narrative
in this country according to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics a woman employee
earns just 83 cents for every dollar a
man earns what may surprise you is that
this trend continues even into the
entrepreneurial sphere a woman business
owner earns just 80 cents for every
dollar a man owes and my work I've often
heard women expressed that they're
uncomfortable communicating their value
especially early on in business
ownership they say things like I don't
like to toot my own horn I'd rather let
the work speak for itself I don't like
to sing my own praises I hear very
different narratives in working with
male business owners and I think this
difference is costing women 20 cents on
the dollar I'd like to tell you the
story of a consulting firm that helps
their clients dramatically improve the
profitability that company is my company
after my first year in business I saw
the profit increases that my clients
were realizing and working with me and I
realized that I needed to reevaluate my
pricing I was really under pressure to
the value I was delivering
it's hard for me to admit to you because
I'm a pricing consultant it's what I do
I help companies price for value but
nonetheless it's what I saw and so I sat
down to evaluate my pricing evaluate my
value and I did that by asking key value
questions what are my clients needs and
how do I meet them what is my unique
skill set that makes me better qualified
to serve my clients what do I do that no
one else does what problems do I solve
for clients what value do I add I
answered these questions and define the
value that my clients get from working
with me calculated their return on
investment and what I saw is that India
needs to double my price double it
now I confess to you that this terrified
me I'm supposed to be the expert in this
but I'm not cured I knew the value was
there I was convinced the value was
there and I was still scared out of my
wits what if nobody would pay me that
what does client said that's ridiculous
you're ridiculous
was I really worth that not my work mind
you but me was i worth that I'm the
mother of two beautiful little girls who
depend upon me I'm a single mom what is
my business fail what if I fail but I
know how to take my own medicine the
medicine that I prescribed to my clients
I had done the homework I knew the value
was there so when prospects came I
prepared the proposals with the new
higher pricing and sent them out and
communicated the value how's the story
end clients continued to hire me and
refer me and recommend me and I'm still
here and I share the story because
doubts and fears are natural and normal
but they don't define our value and they
shouldn't limit our earning potential
I'd like to share another story about a
woman who learned to communicate her
value and found her own voice
she runs a successful web development
company and employs several people when
she first started her firm and for
several years thereafter she would say I
have a little web design company she'd
actually used those words with clients I
have a little web design company and
this and in many other small ways she
was diminishing her company in the eyes
of prospects and clients diminishing
herself it was really impacting her
ability to earn what she was worth I
believe her language and her style
communicated that she didn't believe she
had much value to offer in her own words
she was practically giving her services
away and so she began her journey to
take responsibility for communicating
value to clients and changing her
message one thing I shared with her is
that it's so important to find your own
voice a voice that's authentic and true
to you don't try to channel your
sister-in-law just because she's a great
salesperson or your neighbor who tells a
great joke if that's not who you are
give up this notion that is Tooting your
own horn make it about the other party
focus on serving and adding value and it
won't feel like bragging what do you
love about what you do what excites you
about the work that you do
if you connect with that communicating
your value will come naturally so she
embraced her natural style found her
voice and changed her message for one
thing she stopped calling herself a
little web design company she really
found a lot of strength and power and
communicating her message she's now
charging three times as much for web
design and her business is growing she
told me about a recent meeting with a
gruff and sometimes difficult client
who'd called a meeting questioning
progress on search engine optimization
she said in the old days that would have
been a really intimidating meeting for
her but her mindset was different she
said she prepared the information sat
down with the client so this isn't about
me it's not personal it's about the
client she took them through the data
through the numbers lay
the trends and the progress in her own
voice and in her own way but very
directly he said here's what we've done
for you the client sat up and took
notice and said okay I got it and she
said in describing that meeting I didn't
feel scared or panicky or small which is
how I used to feel instead I feel like
okay I got this I know what I'm doing
I'm confident being properly valued is
so important you can hear in this story
that the implications range far beyond
just finances into the realm of
self-respect and self-confidence so they
have filled two stories one about
defining our value and the other about
communicating our value and these are
the two elements to realizing our full
earnings attention that's the equation
and if you're sitting in the audience
today and you're not being paid what
your words I'd like to welcome you into
this equation
just imagine what life could be like how
much more we could do how much more we
could give back how much more we could
plan for the future how validated and
respected we would feel if we could earn
our full potential realize our full
value no one will ever pay you what
you're worth they'll only ever pay you
what they think you're worth and you
control their thinking thank you
[Applause]
you